[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> According to mythological
and geological records,
roughly 12,800 to
12,900 years ago,
the Earth was drastically
changed by a cosmic event.
Trapped under the surface
of this majestic planet
is an ancient record that holds
the clues to a time on Earth
when all geological patterns
and cycles were broken
and the Earth was
ravaged by floods
and plunged back into a
frozen and dark time known
as the Younger Dryas period.
>> There's a mystery that
exists even today that the great
scientists of our world
continue to speculate on.
And they have to speculate,
because the truth
is, we do not know
precisely what happened
during a mysterious period of
time called the Younger Dryas.
It's a mystery because
of the sudden shift
in climate, the sudden
shift in the sea levels.
We're left only with
the clues that tell us
that these events happened.
It's up to us to determine what
caused the events themselves.
Why did they happen?
During the Pleistocene, the
glaciers were at their maximum.
We were coming out
of this Ice Age.
There was a warming that
was happening on the planet,
as you would expect through
the cyclic conditions
that we have seen in the past.
These cycles often
are driven by what
are called Milankovitch cycles.
This is Earth's dance
around the sun in space.
It is a tilt, an
angle, and a wobble
that changes our
relationship to the sun,
periodically causing
temperatures to rise and fall.
And we were on course
for this gradual warming
when something happened.
And it's this mystery that is
at the root of the controversy
that we're seeing today.
And it's at the
root of what may be
the cause for the loss of
the great civilizations
that we're talking
about Mu and Atlantis.
>> The ice core samples that
we've dug up from various
locations, particularly
Greenland, also Russia,
have shown a number of things
relating to the Younger Dryas.
Every year on glaciers when
the snowfall lands and it gets
compacted into ice, every
year, year after year,
there are these
layers of ice that get
built up in the ice
structure itself.
So when you drill down and
take a core sample of ice,
our science is
progressing to the point
where we can individually
look at a single year,
a single layer inside
of that ice core
and determine from things
like oxygen isotopes, things
like global temperature, the
amount of evidence for, say,
things like massive
biomass burnings,
which is one of the
things that shows up
in these ice cores related
to the Younger Dryas.
And in fact, our science has
really progressed to a point
now where we can show that
during the Younger Dryas,
there was huge temperature
swings up to 10 to 12 degrees
across the planet that
might have happened
within a decade or even
less, say four or five years,
which is just a catastrophic
temperature swing that
would have really
changed the climate
on the planet in dramatic ways.
>> When we look at these ice
core samples from Greenland,
it gives us this perfect
snapshot to understanding what
the climate of the Earth was
like during the Younger Dryas
period.
We had this plummeting
of temperatures followed
by a rapid rise that
the end of the Younger
Dryas leading to a much
warmer and stable climate.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, it means that
the Younger Dryas
period had multiple
different events that
seemed to have occurred.
The fascinating thing is that
those trends and those spikes
in those temperatures as
well as following CO2,
they match the descriptions we
have of when this volatile time
period destroyed civilizations
around the world.
>> And around that
12,800, 900 year boundary,
we find something called
the Younger Dryas layer.
And we find this layer
all around the world
in areas from North
America to the tip of South
America in Chile.
We also find the Younger Dryas
boundaries in South Africa
as well as in Europe.
In fact, most of
these indicators,
at least in the early
days of this work,
came from archaeological
sites in North America,
the Clovis sites that go back
to around 13,000 years ago.
So it's a very well
defined strata layer
that we see in
the ground that we
can define to specific dates.
And this consists of
a black matte layer.
And just below that,
we also find what
we would term impact proxies.
Things like shock
synthesized nanodiamonds,
magnetic spherules,
large quantities
of extraterrestrial platinum
and iridium metal groups.
These proxies are
really only formed
in the extremely
high temperature
conditions that occur
during cosmic airbursts
and cosmic impacts.
A cosmic airburst is
essentially a cosmic body
coming into the
atmosphere and instead
of burning up smaller
particles when they come in,
meteor showers when
we see them, that's
a piece of rock or something
from a meteor stream burning up
in the atmosphere.
But if you have a
large enough body,
it might come into
the atmosphere
and just be heated up by that
transit through the atmosphere
and then explode.
Essentially like a nuclear
bomb going off in the sky.
>> Geologic evidence
from around the world,
and scientists are looking at
this Younger Dryas boundary
layer, that tells us that was
the time period and that was
the place in history where
cataclysms across the Earth
from volcanism to potentially
extreme solar events to even
cosmic impacts.
>> In the ice core samples, we
can see the evidence for just
tremendous biomass burning.
We're talking
something in the order
of 10 million square
kilometers of the biomass
on the planet, which could
have been as much as 8% or 9%
of biomass burning
during this period.
This may have triggered the
nuclear winter effect that
actually was a leading
cause to the deep freeze,
the deep plunge back to
a glacial maximum state
of temperatures that occurred
after the start of the Younger
Dryas.
>> To understand what happened
12 and 13,000 years ago,
we have to go beyond
just the Earth.
We have to look at
this whole solar system
as a unified system
and that something
can then disrupt that.
>> When we look to the beginning
of the Younger Dryas and we see
the various calamities
and catastrophes that hit
our planet, we have to
wonder where this comes from.
In between Mars and
Jupiter, there's an area
that we call the
asteroid belt. And
inside this mysterious
belt, there's
over a million different
asteroids that are over a half
a mile in diameter.
Now, there is a major
debate as to the origin
of this asteroid
belt. But if we look
to ancient Sumerian texts
like the "Enuma Elish"
or "The Law of One"
in modern times,
we hear that the
debris in this field
comes from the remains of
a giant watery planet that
was destroyed.
There's been various
names for this planet
like Tiamat and Mulge,
Nibiru, Phaethon, even Maldek.
>> Tiamat disintegrates into
however many pieces becomes,
the asteroid belt circling the
sun between Mars and Jupiter.
What if there are
fragments of that planet
that escape that orbit?
And that becomes the comet that
triggers the Younger Dryas.
Many researchers believe
that the Younger Dryas
is caused by a cometary impact.
Well, where did that
comet originate from?
Is it possible this was
a fragment of Tiamat that
actually escapes the orbit
that it was originally
in and destroys
much of what we know
of as ancient civilization?
>> When we look at
the solar system,
we have to remember that all
of the bodies are connected
through the gravity of the
sun, which holds the planets
in place.
And if you were to have
one of those planets,
especially the size of
Tiamat, explode, that
would throw off
that gravity balance
throughout the
whole solar system,
causing the sun to go in
such a violent uprising,
kicking out solar proton
outbursts and coronal mass
ejections.
These things are
hitting the Earth,
causing vitrification and
fires all over the planet.
But let's not forget
the water of Tiamat.
The gravity of the sun
is pulling that water
toward the center
of the solar system.
That is racing towards
the Earth and that water
crashing into the
Earth would have
caused flooding and
upswells of water
throughout all the planet.
It was definitely a very
massive time period of upheaval.
>> Recent geologic evidence is
showing us beyond any shadow
of a doubt that there was an
incoming object that fragmented
in our atmosphere, creating
hundreds of thousands
of impacts that range all the
way from the northern latitudes
in Greenland and Newfoundland
all the way down into South
Africa.
>> There's tremendous evidence
now in scientific literature,
mostly led by the
Comet Research Group,
that supports the idea that
it was a series of airbursts
and cosmic impacts that likely
triggered the Younger Dryas
event around 12,800 years ago.
This would have been the impacts
of probably multiple mile
wide impactors across
the northern hemisphere
of the planet and also
a series of airbursts.
We're not talking about
just a single impact.
Most of the evidence
now points towards it
being a series of
impacts and airbursts
that occurred that
started the Younger Dryas.
>> One of the interesting things
geologically that tells us this
happened is that first we can
see now with Earth imaging
radar, we can see the impact
craters in places where we
never thought to look
for craters before.
We can see them in the shallow
water of the sea shelf.
We can see them on land masses
where we never expected craters
to exist.
Geologically, what we're
seeing is traces, high traces
of the element platinum.
And we're seeing
it in the absence
of iridium, another element.
Now, this is important from
a geologic perspective.
Iridium is a transition metal
that is in the platinum family.
So naturally
occurring platinum you
would expect to see
with iridium deposits.
What we're seeing in
the meteor craters
is standalone platinum
without the iridium.
And the way that
geologists interpret this
is that that platinum is of
an extraterrestrial origin.
It doesn't mean aliens and UFOs.
It means that an object came
from beyond our planet that
was rich in the platinum that
is relatively rare on Earth
and that that platinum was not
part of the iridium platinum
sequence that you
would typically
see if it were naturally
occurring on Earth.
>> Our whole planetary system
is covered completely with
craters.
Not only the moon.
Our planet Earth has
more than 900 craters.
Normally nobody speaks about
it because you don't see them.
They are under vegetation.
They are under
forest, in the desert.
>> The United States sent
a probe into a comet,
Comet Tempel 1.
And they do this analysis
of its composition.
It was a small comet.
It looks to have been a
fragment of a larger object.
It didn't have a central core.
But this Comet Tempel 1
was roughly 75% open space.
2/3 of its mass was ice water.
>> A comet can have an
enormous amount of rocky debris
entrained within its icy
mass along with hydrocarbons,
along with volatiles,
gases, cosmic dust.
So a comet can actually induce
some pretty significant changes
into the biosphere.
>> With impact craters around
the planet Earth and new
evidence about the structure of
comets, the question remains,
was all of the Earth's extra
water held only in the polar
ice?
Or was a vast amount more
delivered at the beginning
of the Younger Dryas period?
>> 12,800 years ago, there
was a major cosmic impact.
This delivered more
than two miles of water
to the former abysses.
The object that delivered
the flood has many names.
One of which is Phaethon.
Phaethon impacted the Earth.
It delivered roughly more
than two miles of water
to the abyssal plains.
Along the way, it
shed huge ice chunks.
Geologists know
there was an impact.
We can find impacts in
North America, South Africa,
and some people think
there are impacts even
in Europe, which would mean
that Phaethon was real high up
on its Earth approach and
it was shedding these things
over a wide distribution.
When Phaethon hit
and its ice started
melting and those
waters started coursing
their way around the
planet, the volume
of water that was delivered
is almost unimaginable.
The whole planet is
changing because of this.
Initially inhabitants
of the Mediterranean
are more likely to have survived
the flood event than anywhere
else on the planet almost.
Inhabitants of the
Mediterranean basin
had a survival advantage
because they recognized
that there were some great
changes to the planet taking
place.
That would have
included intense rain.
When the waters
flowed into the basin
through the Strait of
Gibraltar, those inhabitants
were chased out of the
Mediterranean and up to either
the southern coast of Europe or
the northern coast of Africa.
Folks on the Eastern end
of the Mediterranean,
once that would
eventually flood,
they may have made their way
to Turkey, Syria, Israel.
In other words, the eastern
part of the Mediterranean
now, those landscapes.
>> What caused the beginning
of the Younger Dryas?
There are a couple of
theories involved here.
The major theory that
many people talk about
is that perhaps
the Younger Dryas
began with a comet hitting.
The comet proponents have
suggested all kinds of evidence
for this impactor, this
physical impactor either hitting
the Earth or exploding
in the atmosphere.
Most of them put it
over North America.
They suggest that there's
things like the Carolina bays
that might be part of the comet.
They have suggested that
there might have been
an impact crater at some point.
The Hiawatha crater in
Greenland was discovered
and some people thought
that was the impact crater.
It turns out that
the Hiawatha crater
does not date to the beginning
of the Younger Dryas.
In fact, it's tens of millions
of years older than that.
But when you start putting
together all the evidence,
you have to, in my opinion,
look at other factors as well.
When the sun has a
major solar outburst,
that is plasma which is ejected
and if the Earth is in the way,
hits the Earth.
We could think of it as
huge lightning bolts.
Some people refer to
them as cosmic rays.
You have what are known
as solar proton events.
You have coronal mass ejections.
Sometimes what's now
referred to as a micro nova.
This would create the same
type of shock features.
It would create the same
kind of vitrification,
these glassy little spherules.
It would set huge
fires and incineration
on the surface of the Earth.
>> When our sun releases
what are called Coronal Mass
Ejections, CMEs, this is a
tremendous amount of very hot
plasma that is
leaving the corona,
the atmosphere of the sun.
But it's not traveling alone.
It's not just plasma.
There's actually
a magnetic field
that travels with the plasma.
So a massive CME with the plasma
and the magnetic field coming
toward the Earth, what
happens is the energy
from that plasma pushes the
protons in front of it at such
an accelerated rate that
they begin to move and follow
the magnetic field
lines between the planet
creating tremendous
amounts of radiation.
Now, normally our
planetary magnetic field
would shield us
from that radiation.
However, this happens to
be occurring during a time
when the magnetic fields
were waning to begin with.
>> In 2011, Paul
A. LaViolette, PhD,
published a paper providing
evidence from the ocean
sediment record in the Curacao
basin of Venezuela that 12,837
years before present, an
abrupt rise of radiocarbon
concentrations may have been
caused by a massive solar
proton event.
LaViolette compares the
findings from Venezuela
with data from the same time
period within the Greenland ice
record, which reveals
a large acidity
spike and high nitrate
ion concentrations,
suggesting that
these are indicators
of a sudden cosmic ray influx.
>> Coronal mass ejections were
throwing off balls of plasma.
In a matter of days as it
raced towards the Earth,
this bubble of hot
coronal gas and plasma
would have expanded
to form a dome shaped
front tens of millions
of miles in diameter.
Upon arriving, this sphere
of hot, fiery plasma
would have temporarily
engulfed the Earth.
It also would have
severely disturbed
the Earth's geomagnetic field.
>> For the beginning
of the Younger Dryas,
we have a cooling period.
How can the sun having
a major solar outburst
cause a cooling period?
Before the beginning
of the Younger Dryas,
the Earth was slowly warming up.
And what you had on the
huge continental ice sheets
and the glaciers
is you had melting.
And what were being created were
huge lakes on those ice sheets
that were being held
back at their perimeter
by essentially ice dams.
When this solar outburst hit,
it melted those ice dams.
It poured huge amounts of fresh
water into the North Atlantic.
This changed ocean
circulation patterns
and created an
incredible cooling effect
in the northern hemisphere
for 1,200 years.
One has to realize that the
Younger Dryas cooling period is
primarily a northern
hemisphere phenomenon.
So all of a sudden
in my assessment,
all the pieces fit together.
>> Whether we're
talking about the comet,
whether we're
talking about a CME,
all of these events are
now unveiling a new story
of our world and a new story of
the conditions that have driven
the civilization in our
world in times past.
>> If there was a watery planet
that exploded in our solar
system and a massive amount of
water and icy debris impacted
and began flooding the Earth,
what other evidence can be
found of the time before
Earth's surface was drastically
changed?
>> New technology from
satellites and remote sensing
now give us the opportunity to
have a vantage point from far
above the surface of the Earth.
We're looking from space
on to the landforms that
remain today, to the
continents that remain today,
but we're looking at landforms
from a new perspective
through new eyes, through a
new lens of understanding.
One of the discoveries
that we've made recently
is when we begin looking
at the coasts of North
America, for example, in
California and the mountains
and we see the landforms that
appear to be vast drainage
areas moving, as
you would expect,
fluvial channels to move.
If we continue following
those fluvial channels off
of the coast, what now is
under the water at one time
was exposed.
What do we begin to see?
And what we begin to
see is precisely that.
The continuity, the
continuation of these landforms
under the water telling us
how much water has covered
what was once the land.
>> You can look at
continental margins.
So if someone wants
to do this, they
can go up to the Gulf of Alaska.
And they can see
a series of rivers
that came down from what was
the continental shelf down
into the abyss.
And that went hundreds of
miles, 700, 800 miles out.
One of them winds
its way between two
submerged volcanoes.
Over on the East
Coast, you can see
where those rivers
flowed through the margin
down into the abyss
prior to the flood.
So the fact that we can see
these rivers on both the East
and West Side of
North America, that
invalidates continental drift.
They haven't been moving.
These rivers were flowing for
millions of years subaerially
and they became submerged
during the flood.
And that's why we
can see them now.
It means the continent
hasn't been moving.
If there be a smearing, they
wouldn't have the same source.
You can tell they
have the same mountain
system, the drainage system
that's still subaerial
that flowed at one time
down, before the flood,
flowed down into the abyss.
>> When we look at
the satellite imagery,
we also see ancient
riverbeds under what is now
the Mediterranean Sea.
And there's further
evidence of ancient river
systems in the
Celtic Sea just off
the coast of
Normandy and England.
Here we can see the remains
of these ancient rivers that
had the same terminal
depths that we can
find in the Monterey Bay area.
So this provides us
some hints of what
was going on in the ancient
world, what was going on
with some of these
ancient civilizations,
who these people were,
and what they were doing.
>> As satellite imagery and ice
core samples continue to expand
our understanding of
the ancient planet,
there is little doubt that the
Earth has drastically changed
since the beginning
of the Younger Dryas.
What other evidence
points to a time
where some of the
people on planet Earth
were able to survive this
destructive time in history?
>> At our planet, we have
some societies who went under
the Earth.
They constructed tunnels.
They constructed living rooms.
They constructed
cities under the Earth.
Other constructed
gigantic dolmens,
dolmens with gigantic roof.
Why?
Because from time to time,
stones fell from heaven.
They wanted to be protected
against these stones who
fell from heaven.
That's why they created
subterranean cities in Turkey
like Derinkuyu, Kaymakli,
gigantic cities.
Those stones just don't
fell from heaven like this.
It must be a reason.
It was the destroying
of the asteroid belt.
>> What if advanced word got
to Earth that our planet was
to befall a great
series of calamities,
catastrophes that would destroy
civilization as it was known
back then?
What if this is what we see in
the Cappadocia region of Turkey
with places like Derinkuyu
where they built an entire city
underground to
protect themselves
from the vitrification,
from the fires,
from the solar
flares that were just
going to decimate the planet?
What if this is what we see
in the Hopi legends of the ant
people coming up to rescue them
and keep them safe underground
until finally the Earth was
safe to repopulate again?
Perhaps there was
an advance warning
that our civilizations on
the planet at that time
were going to be destroyed.
And this is how the people
of Earth were protected.
>> As the mystery of the
Younger Dryas period continues
to unfold, what other clues will
be found to help alternative
researchers understand the
chaos and destruction during one
of the most debated and
anomalous geological periods
in Earth's ancient history?
[MUSIC PLAYING]